.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Dear Airflow Maintainers,

Please accept this PR that addresses the following issues:
- *(replace with a link to AIRFLOW-X)*

Per Apache guidelines you need to create a [Jira issue](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AIRFLOW/).

Testing Done:
- Unittests are required, if you do not include new unit tests please
specify why you think this is not required. We like to improve our
coverage so a non existing test is even a better reason to include one.

Reminders for contributors (REQUIRED!):
* Your PR's title must reference an issue on 
[Airflow's JIRA](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AIRFLOW/). 
For example, a PR called "[AIRFLOW-1] My Amazing PR" would close JIRA 
issue #1. Please open a new issue if required!
* Please squash your commits when possible and follow the [How to write a good git commit message](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/). 
Summarized as follows:
  1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
  2. Limit the subject line to 50 characters
  3. Do not end the subject line with a period
  4. Use the imperative mood in the subject line (add, not adding)
  5. Wrap the body at 72 characters
  6. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how

Commit message:

[AIRFLOW-556] Add UI PR guidelines
For all PRs with UI changes, it is a requirement
that screenshots be included in the PR. Update
PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE with this PR guideline for
UI changes.

Closes #1829 from r39132/master

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Dear Airflow Maintainers,

Please accept this PR that addresses the following issues:
- *(replace with a link to AIRFLOW-X)*

Per Apache guidelines you need to create a [Jira issue](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AIRFLOW/).

Testing Done:
- Unittests are required, if you do not include new unit tests please
specify why you think this is not required. We like to improve our
coverage so a non existing test is even a better reason to include one.

Reminders for contributors (REQUIRED!):
* Your PR's title must reference an issue on 
[Airflow's JIRA](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AIRFLOW/). 
For example, a PR called "[AIRFLOW-1] My Amazing PR" would close JIRA 
issue #1. Please open a new issue if required!

* For all PRs with UI changes, you must provide screenshots. If the UI changes are not obvious, either annotate the images or provide before/after screenshots.

* Please squash your commits when possible and follow the [How to write a good git commit message](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/). 
Summarized as follows:
  1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
  2. Limit the subject line to 50 characters
  3. Do not end the subject line with a period
  4. Use the imperative mood in the subject line (add, not adding)
  5. Wrap the body at 72 characters
  6. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how
