docs/faq.rst, before:

FAQ
========

**Why isn't my task getting scheduled?**

There are very many reasons why your task might not be getting scheduled.
Here are some of the common causes:

- Does your script "compile", can the Airflow engine parse it and find your
  DAG object. To test this, you can run ``airflow list_dags`` and
  confirm that your DAG shows up in the list. You can also run
  ``airflow list_tasks foo_dag_id --tree`` and confirm that your task
  shows up in the list as expected. If you use the CeleryExecutor, you
  may way to confirm that this works both where the scheduler runs as well
  as where the worker runs.

- Is your ``start_date`` set properly? The Airflow scheduler triggers the
  task soon after the ``start_date + scheduler_interval`` is passed.

- Is your ``start_date`` beyond where you can see it in the UI? If you
  set your it to some time say 3 months ago, you won't be able to see
  it in the main view in the UI, but you should be able to see it in the
  ``Menu -> Browse ->Task Instances``.

- Are the dependencies for the task met. The task instances directly
  upstream from the task need to be in a ``success`` state. Also,
  if you have set ``depends_on_past=True``, the previous task instance
  needs to have succeeded (except if it is the first run for that task).
  Also, if ``wait_for_downstream=True``, make sure you understand
  what it means.
  You can view how these properties are set from the ``Task Details``
  page for your task.

- Are the DagRuns you need created and active? A DagRun represents a specific
  execution of an entire DAG and has a state (running, success, failed, ...).
  The scheduler creates new DagRun as it moves forward, but never goes back
  in time to create new ones. The scheduler only evaluates ``running`` DagRuns
  to see what task instances it can trigger. Note that clearing tasks
  instances (from the UI or CLI) does set the state of a DagRun back to
  running. You can bulk view the list of DagRuns and alter states by clicking
  on the schedule tag for a DAG.

- Is the ``concurrency`` parameter of your DAG reached? ``concurency`` defines
  how many ``running`` task instances a DAG is allowed to have, beyond which
  point things get queued. 

- Is the ``max_active_runs`` parameter of your DAG reached? ``max_active_runs`` defines
  how many ``running`` concurrent instances of a DAG there are allowed to be.

You may also want to read the Scheduler section of the docs and make
sure you fully understand how it proceeds.


**How do I trigger tasks based on another task's failure?**

Check out the ``Trigger Rule`` section in the Concepts section of the
documentation

**Why are connection passwords still not encrypted in the metadata db after I installed airflow[crypto]**?

- Verify that the ``fernet_key`` defined in ``$AIRFLOW_HOME/airflow.cfg`` is a valid Fernet key. It must be a base64-encoded 32-byte key. You need to restart the webserver after you update the key
- For existing connections (the ones that you had defined before installing ``airflow[crypto]`` and creating a Fernet key), you need to open each connection in the connection admin UI, re-type the password, and save it

Commit message:

[AIRFLOW-575] Clarify tutorial and FAQ about `schedule_interval` always inheriting from DAG object
- Update the tutorial with a comment helping to explain the use of default_args and
include all the possible parameters in line
- Clarify in the FAQ the possibility of an unexpected default `schedule_interval`in case
airflow users mistakenly try to overwrite the default `schedule_interval` in a DAG's
`default_args` parameter

docs/faq.rst, after:

FAQ
========

**Why isn't my task getting scheduled?**

There are very many reasons why your task might not be getting scheduled.
Here are some of the common causes:

- Does your script "compile", can the Airflow engine parse it and find your
  DAG object. To test this, you can run ``airflow list_dags`` and
  confirm that your DAG shows up in the list. You can also run
  ``airflow list_tasks foo_dag_id --tree`` and confirm that your task
  shows up in the list as expected. If you use the CeleryExecutor, you
  may way to confirm that this works both where the scheduler runs as well
  as where the worker runs.

- Is your ``start_date`` set properly? The Airflow scheduler triggers the
  task soon after the ``start_date + scheduler_interval`` is passed.

- Is your ``schedule_interval`` set properly? The default ``schedule_interval``
  is one day (``datetime.timedelta(1)``). You must specify a different ``schedule_interval``
  directly to the DAG object you instantiate, not as a ``default_param``, as task instances
  do not override their parent DAG's ``schedule_interval``.

- Is your ``start_date`` beyond where you can see it in the UI? If you
  set your it to some time say 3 months ago, you won't be able to see
  it in the main view in the UI, but you should be able to see it in the
  ``Menu -> Browse ->Task Instances``.

- Are the dependencies for the task met. The task instances directly
  upstream from the task need to be in a ``success`` state. Also,
  if you have set ``depends_on_past=True``, the previous task instance
  needs to have succeeded (except if it is the first run for that task).
  Also, if ``wait_for_downstream=True``, make sure you understand
  what it means.
  You can view how these properties are set from the ``Task Details``
  page for your task.

- Are the DagRuns you need created and active? A DagRun represents a specific
  execution of an entire DAG and has a state (running, success, failed, ...).
  The scheduler creates new DagRun as it moves forward, but never goes back
  in time to create new ones. The scheduler only evaluates ``running`` DagRuns
  to see what task instances it can trigger. Note that clearing tasks
  instances (from the UI or CLI) does set the state of a DagRun back to
  running. You can bulk view the list of DagRuns and alter states by clicking
  on the schedule tag for a DAG.

- Is the ``concurrency`` parameter of your DAG reached? ``concurency`` defines
  how many ``running`` task instances a DAG is allowed to have, beyond which
  point things get queued. 

- Is the ``max_active_runs`` parameter of your DAG reached? ``max_active_runs`` defines
  how many ``running`` concurrent instances of a DAG there are allowed to be.

You may also want to read the Scheduler section of the docs and make
sure you fully understand how it proceeds.


**How do I trigger tasks based on another task's failure?**

Check out the ``Trigger Rule`` section in the Concepts section of the
documentation

**Why are connection passwords still not encrypted in the metadata db after I installed airflow[crypto]**?

- Verify that the ``fernet_key`` defined in ``$AIRFLOW_HOME/airflow.cfg`` is a valid Fernet key. It must be a base64-encoded 32-byte key. You need to restart the webserver after you update the key
- For existing connections (the ones that you had defined before installing ``airflow[crypto]`` and creating a Fernet key), you need to open each connection in the connection admin UI, re-type the password, and save it
