docs/ml-guide.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: "MLlib: Main Guide"
displayTitle: "Machine Learning Library (MLlib) Guide"
---

MLlib is Spark's machine learning (ML) library.
Its goal is to make practical machine learning scalable and easy.
At a high level, it provides tools such as:

* ML Algorithms: common learning algorithms such as classification, regression, clustering, and collaborative filtering
* Featurization: feature extraction, transformation, dimensionality reduction, and selection
* Pipelines: tools for constructing, evaluating, and tuning ML Pipelines
* Persistence: saving and load algorithms, models, and Pipelines
* Utilities: linear algebra, statistics, data handling, etc.

# Announcement: DataFrame-based API is primary API

**The MLlib RDD-based API is now in maintenance mode.**

As of Spark 2.0, the [RDD](programming-guide.html#resilient-distributed-datasets-rdds)-based APIs in the `spark.mllib` package have entered maintenance mode.
The primary Machine Learning API for Spark is now the [DataFrame](sql-programming-guide.html)-based API in the `spark.ml` package.

*What are the implications?*

* MLlib will still support the RDD-based API in `spark.mllib` with bug fixes.
* MLlib will not add new features to the RDD-based API.
* In the Spark 2.x releases, MLlib will add features to the DataFrames-based API to reach feature parity with the RDD-based API.
* After reaching feature parity (roughly estimated for Spark 2.3), the RDD-based API will be deprecated.
* The RDD-based API is expected to be removed in Spark 3.0.

*Why is MLlib switching to the DataFrame-based API?*

* DataFrames provide a more user-friendly API than RDDs.  The many benefits of DataFrames include Spark Datasources, SQL/DataFrame queries, Tungsten and Catalyst optimizations, and uniform APIs across languages.
* The DataFrame-based API for MLlib provides a uniform API across ML algorithms and across multiple languages.
* DataFrames facilitate practical ML Pipelines, particularly feature transformations.  See the [Pipelines guide](ml-pipeline.html) for details.

*What is "Spark ML"?*

* "Spark ML" is not an official name but occasionally used to refer to the MLlib DataFrame-based API.
  This is majorly due to the `org.apache.spark.ml` Scala package name used by the DataFrame-based API, 
  and the "Spark ML Pipelines" term we used initially to emphasize the pipeline concept.
  
*Is MLlib deprecated?*

* No. MLlib includes both the RDD-based API and the DataFrame-based API.
  The RDD-based API is now in maintenance mode.
  But neither API is deprecated, nor MLlib as a whole.

# Dependencies

MLlib uses the linear algebra package [Breeze](http://www.scalanlp.org/), which depends on
[netlib-java](https://github.com/fommil/netlib-java) for optimised numerical processing.
If native libraries[^1] are not available at runtime, you will see a warning message and a pure JVM
implementation will be used instead.

Due to licensing issues with runtime proprietary binaries, we do not include `netlib-java`'s native
proxies by default.
To configure `netlib-java` / Breeze to use system optimised binaries, include
`com.github.fommil.netlib:all:1.1.2` (or build Spark with `-Pnetlib-lgpl`) as a dependency of your
project and read the [netlib-java](https://github.com/fommil/netlib-java) documentation for your
platform's additional installation instructions.

The most popular native BLAS such as [Intel MKL](https://software.intel.com/en-us/mkl), [OpenBLAS](http://www.openblas.net), are based on multi-threading. 
For example, when OpenBLAS is loaded, it will create a thread pool with `MAX_CPU_NUMBER` threads, and the threads are using spinlock by default, which will conflict with Spark.

If using a native BLAS based on multi-threading, for the best performance you must set it to use single thread first ([SPARK-21305](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-21305)).

To use MLlib in Python, you will need [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org) version 1.4 or newer.

[^1]: To learn more about the benefits and background of system optimised natives, you may wish to
    watch Sam Halliday's ScalaX talk on [High Performance Linear Algebra in Scala](http://fommil.github.io/scalax14/#/).

# Highlights in 2.2

The list below highlights some of the new features and enhancements added to MLlib in the `2.2`
release of Spark:

* [`ALS`](ml-collaborative-filtering.html) methods for _top-k_ recommendations for all
 users or items, matching the functionality in `mllib`
 ([SPARK-19535](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19535)).
 Performance was also improved for both `ml` and `mllib`
 ([SPARK-11968](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-11968) and
 [SPARK-20587](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-20587))
* [`Correlation`](ml-statistics.html#correlation) and
 [`ChiSquareTest`](ml-statistics.html#hypothesis-testing) stats functions for `DataFrames`
 ([SPARK-19636](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19636) and
 [SPARK-19635](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19635))
* [`FPGrowth`](ml-frequent-pattern-mining.html#fp-growth) algorithm for frequent pattern mining
 ([SPARK-14503](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14503))
* `GLM` now supports the full `Tweedie` family
 ([SPARK-18929](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-18929))
* [`Imputer`](ml-features.html#imputer) feature transformer to impute missing values in a dataset
 ([SPARK-13568](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-13568))
* [`LinearSVC`](ml-classification-regression.html#linear-support-vector-machine)
 for linear Support Vector Machine classification
 ([SPARK-14709](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14709))
* Logistic regression now supports constraints on the coefficients during training
 ([SPARK-20047](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-20047))

# Migration guide

MLlib is under active development.
The APIs marked `Experimental`/`DeveloperApi` may change in future releases,
and the migration guide below will explain all changes between releases.

## From 2.1 to 2.2

### Breaking changes

There are no breaking changes.

### Deprecations and changes of behavior

**Deprecations**

There are no deprecations.

**Changes of behavior**

* [SPARK-19787](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19787):
 Default value of `regParam` changed from `1.0` to `0.1` for `ALS.train` method (marked `DeveloperApi`).
 **Note** this does _not affect_ the `ALS` Estimator or Model, nor MLlib's `ALS` class.
* [SPARK-14772](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14772):
 Fixed inconsistency between Python and Scala APIs for `Param.copy` method.
* [SPARK-11569](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-11569):
 `StringIndexer` now handles `NULL` values in the same way as unseen values. Previously an exception
 would always be thrown regardless of the setting of the `handleInvalid` parameter.
  
## Previous Spark versions

Earlier migration guides are archived [on this page](ml-migration-guides.html).

---

Commit message:

add recommended setting for native blas link

docs/ml-guide.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: "MLlib: Main Guide"
displayTitle: "Machine Learning Library (MLlib) Guide"
---

MLlib is Spark's machine learning (ML) library.
Its goal is to make practical machine learning scalable and easy.
At a high level, it provides tools such as:

* ML Algorithms: common learning algorithms such as classification, regression, clustering, and collaborative filtering
* Featurization: feature extraction, transformation, dimensionality reduction, and selection
* Pipelines: tools for constructing, evaluating, and tuning ML Pipelines
* Persistence: saving and load algorithms, models, and Pipelines
* Utilities: linear algebra, statistics, data handling, etc.

# Announcement: DataFrame-based API is primary API

**The MLlib RDD-based API is now in maintenance mode.**

As of Spark 2.0, the [RDD](programming-guide.html#resilient-distributed-datasets-rdds)-based APIs in the `spark.mllib` package have entered maintenance mode.
The primary Machine Learning API for Spark is now the [DataFrame](sql-programming-guide.html)-based API in the `spark.ml` package.

*What are the implications?*

* MLlib will still support the RDD-based API in `spark.mllib` with bug fixes.
* MLlib will not add new features to the RDD-based API.
* In the Spark 2.x releases, MLlib will add features to the DataFrames-based API to reach feature parity with the RDD-based API.
* After reaching feature parity (roughly estimated for Spark 2.3), the RDD-based API will be deprecated.
* The RDD-based API is expected to be removed in Spark 3.0.

*Why is MLlib switching to the DataFrame-based API?*

* DataFrames provide a more user-friendly API than RDDs.  The many benefits of DataFrames include Spark Datasources, SQL/DataFrame queries, Tungsten and Catalyst optimizations, and uniform APIs across languages.
* The DataFrame-based API for MLlib provides a uniform API across ML algorithms and across multiple languages.
* DataFrames facilitate practical ML Pipelines, particularly feature transformations.  See the [Pipelines guide](ml-pipeline.html) for details.

*What is "Spark ML"?*

* "Spark ML" is not an official name but occasionally used to refer to the MLlib DataFrame-based API.
  This is majorly due to the `org.apache.spark.ml` Scala package name used by the DataFrame-based API, 
  and the "Spark ML Pipelines" term we used initially to emphasize the pipeline concept.
  
*Is MLlib deprecated?*

* No. MLlib includes both the RDD-based API and the DataFrame-based API.
  The RDD-based API is now in maintenance mode.
  But neither API is deprecated, nor MLlib as a whole.

# Dependencies

MLlib uses the linear algebra package [Breeze](http://www.scalanlp.org/), which depends on
[netlib-java](https://github.com/fommil/netlib-java) for optimised numerical processing.
If native libraries[^1] are not available at runtime, you will see a warning message and a pure JVM
implementation will be used instead.

Due to licensing issues with runtime proprietary binaries, we do not include `netlib-java`'s native
proxies by default.
To configure `netlib-java` / Breeze to use system optimised binaries, include
`com.github.fommil.netlib:all:1.1.2` (or build Spark with `-Pnetlib-lgpl`) as a dependency of your
project and read the [netlib-java](https://github.com/fommil/netlib-java) documentation for your
platform's additional installation instructions.

The most popular native BLAS such as [Intel MKL](https://software.intel.com/en-us/mkl), [OpenBLAS](http://www.openblas.net), are based on multi-threading, which will conflict with Spark.

If using a native BLAS based on multi-threading, you might get better performance to set it to use single thread first ([SPARK-21305](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-21305)). 

Please reference the recommended settings for [Intel MKL](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/recommended-settings-for-calling-intel-mkl-routines-from-multi-threaded-applications) and [OpenBLAS](https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/wiki/faq#multi-threaded).

To use MLlib in Python, you will need [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org) version 1.4 or newer.

[^1]: To learn more about the benefits and background of system optimised natives, you may wish to
    watch Sam Halliday's ScalaX talk on [High Performance Linear Algebra in Scala](http://fommil.github.io/scalax14/#/).

# Highlights in 2.2

The list below highlights some of the new features and enhancements added to MLlib in the `2.2`
release of Spark:

* [`ALS`](ml-collaborative-filtering.html) methods for _top-k_ recommendations for all
 users or items, matching the functionality in `mllib`
 ([SPARK-19535](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19535)).
 Performance was also improved for both `ml` and `mllib`
 ([SPARK-11968](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-11968) and
 [SPARK-20587](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-20587))
* [`Correlation`](ml-statistics.html#correlation) and
 [`ChiSquareTest`](ml-statistics.html#hypothesis-testing) stats functions for `DataFrames`
 ([SPARK-19636](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19636) and
 [SPARK-19635](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19635))
* [`FPGrowth`](ml-frequent-pattern-mining.html#fp-growth) algorithm for frequent pattern mining
 ([SPARK-14503](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14503))
* `GLM` now supports the full `Tweedie` family
 ([SPARK-18929](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-18929))
* [`Imputer`](ml-features.html#imputer) feature transformer to impute missing values in a dataset
 ([SPARK-13568](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-13568))
* [`LinearSVC`](ml-classification-regression.html#linear-support-vector-machine)
 for linear Support Vector Machine classification
 ([SPARK-14709](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14709))
* Logistic regression now supports constraints on the coefficients during training
 ([SPARK-20047](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-20047))

# Migration guide

MLlib is under active development.
The APIs marked `Experimental`/`DeveloperApi` may change in future releases,
and the migration guide below will explain all changes between releases.

## From 2.1 to 2.2

### Breaking changes

There are no breaking changes.

### Deprecations and changes of behavior

**Deprecations**

There are no deprecations.

**Changes of behavior**

* [SPARK-19787](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-19787):
 Default value of `regParam` changed from `1.0` to `0.1` for `ALS.train` method (marked `DeveloperApi`).
 **Note** this does _not affect_ the `ALS` Estimator or Model, nor MLlib's `ALS` class.
* [SPARK-14772](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-14772):
 Fixed inconsistency between Python and Scala APIs for `Param.copy` method.
* [SPARK-11569](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-11569):
 `StringIndexer` now handles `NULL` values in the same way as unseen values. Previously an exception
 would always be thrown regardless of the setting of the `handleInvalid` parameter.
  
## Previous Spark versions

Earlier migration guides are archived [on this page](ml-migration-guides.html).

---
