docs/sql-error-conditions-invalid-conf-value-error-class.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: INVALID_CONF_VALUE error class
displayTitle: INVALID_CONF_VALUE error class
license: |
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
---

<!--
  DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.
  It was generated automatically by `org.apache.spark.SparkThrowableSuite`.
-->

[SQLSTATE: 22022](sql-error-conditions-sqlstates.html#class-22-data-exception)

The value '`<confValue>`' in the config "`<confName>`" is invalid.

This error class has the following derived error classes:

## TIME_ZONE

Cannot resolve the given timezone.

Commit message:

[SPARK-47765][SQL] Add SET COLLATION to parser rules
### What changes were proposed in this pull request?
Addition of a new statement SET COLLATION collationName.

### Why are the changes needed?
Requested by srielau in order to follow other principles for session level defaults (e.g. SET TIME ZONE).

### Does this PR introduce _any_ user-facing change?
Users now can use SET COLLATION statement to change session level default collation.

### How was this patch tested?
Test added to `CollationSuite`.

### Was this patch authored or co-authored using generative AI tooling?
No.

Closes #45946 from mihailom-db/SPARK-47765.

Authored-by: Mihailo Milosevic <mihailo.milosevic@databricks.com>
Signed-off-by: Wenchen Fan <wenchen@databricks.com>

docs/sql-error-conditions-invalid-conf-value-error-class.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: INVALID_CONF_VALUE error class
displayTitle: INVALID_CONF_VALUE error class
license: |
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
---

<!--
  DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.
  It was generated automatically by `org.apache.spark.SparkThrowableSuite`.
-->

[SQLSTATE: 22022](sql-error-conditions-sqlstates.html#class-22-data-exception)

The value '`<confValue>`' in the config "`<confName>`" is invalid.

This error class has the following derived error classes:

## DEFAULT_COLLATION

Cannot resolve the given default collation. Did you mean '`<proposal>`'?

## TIME_ZONE

Cannot resolve the given timezone.
